the siggraph 2015 hybrid crafts
exhibition showcases craft techniques
and values in contemporary digital
design the following are 15 works from
skilled makers inspired by the riyuku
sticky guitar this wooden instrument was
crafted based on the 3d printed guitar
concept these instruments are designed
so that most of the components can be
produced with digital fabrication tools
such as the laser-cut folding ukulele by
using 3d printed parts and aluminum
tubes this work empowers novice makers
to construct their own bicycle frames
using a comprehensive kit these examples
of the creative use of computer-aided
manufacturing and cnc incorporate
traditional Celtic craft values with
digital technology combining 3d printed
puzzles with wearable jewelry these
puzzle rings are not only meant to be
admired but also interacted with this
copper electroplated sls nylon bowl was
achieved by creating form building
software this porcelain piece combines
digital design and production methods
with hand drawing traditional slip
casting and hand building processes for
high fired porcelain using a freefall
slumping technique this bowl is created
by eating glass disks and letting
gravity force the glass against pins the
tooling systems in this project have
been developed almost entirely with
digital design tools originally designed
in the nineteen
60s and 70s these objects were realized
in 2010 using digital tools model from
scratch and printed in Shapeways sls 9
these animal models boast integral
joints allowing lifelike motion these 3d
printed PLA models rely on modified
modeling software and DIY 3d printers
this work explores the question of how
computational methods machine tools and
fabrication resources can be used
outside the paradigm of application
purpose and profit this work is part of
a series that explores how unique
wallpapers decorative and interactive
can be constructed from thin flexible
electronics this project explores the
relationship between physical painting
with ink on paper digital painting with
LEDs and the handcrafted circuitry that
connected the two this work contributes
to the design of the hybrid crafts
exhibition itself by using a parametric
design tool to create patterns
decorating exhibitions walls and
pedestals combining drawing programming
and making the siggraph 2015 art gallery
emphasizes the importance of crab
heritage and contemporary digital design
where beautiful and meaningful artifacts
are produced by a machine and crafts
person working together